---
layout: post
title: How to get stacktraces from errors in Golang with go-errors/errors
publish_date: January 22nd, 2015
author_name: Conrad Irwin
author_twitter: conradirwin
author_avatar: conrad
categories: engineering
---

It's been 6 months since we released [bugsnag-go](https://github.com/bugsnag/bugsnag-go), allowing you to send Go error reports to Bugsnag. It's high time to share the technology we built to make it work: the [go-errors/errors](https://github.com/go-errors/errors) library.

By default in Go, errors don't have a stacktrace. In fact, an error is a very simple interface:

```go
interface error {
  Error() string
}
```

In other words, the only thing you can get out of that error is the string that describes
what went wrong.

This simplicity provides great power for handling expected errors, as described
by [Rob Pike](https://twitter.com/rob_pike) last week in [Errors are values](https://blog.golang.org/errors-are-values).
Unfortunately, it doesn't provide everything you need for debugging  problems that are unexpected. This is where
the [go-errors/errors](https://github.com/go-errors/errors) package comes in.

Getting the stacktrace
----------------------

The most useful piece of context for tracking down an unexpected failure is the
stacktrace so it's a good idea to print it out. This lets you trace through the
program and see why it ended up in the state it did.

Errors in Go are usually returned, but in order to associate a stacktrace with
an error, you'll have to do that at the point it's created using go-errors.


```go
package crashy

import "github.com/go-errors/errors"

func Crash() error {
    return errors.Errorf("this function is supposed to crash");
}
```

Now any function that calls `crashy.Crash()` can find out the stacktrace that
led to the failure.

```go
err := crashy.Crash()
if err != nil {
    fmt.Println(err.(*errors.Error).ErrorStack())
}
```

This helpfully prints out not only the error message, but also the stacktrace:

```
*errors.errorString this function is supposed to crash
/0/go/src/github.com/go-errors/errors/crashy/crashy.go:8 (0x41280)
    Crash: return errors.New(Crashed)
/0/go/src/github.com/go-errors/errors/example/main.go:11 (0x2026)
    main: err := crashy.Crash()
```

Wrapping existing errors
-------------------------

Most libraries in Go already return the simple, featureless `error` interface. In order
to add a stacktrace to those existing errors, you can Wrap them using the errors
library. This'll give you the stacktrace at the point the error made its way into your code, which is usually good enough to track down the problem.

```go
_, err := reader.Read(buff)
if err != nil {
    return errors.Wrap(err, 1)
}
```

The second parameter to Wrap allows you to control where the stacktrace appears
to start. When set to 1 it will be the line that contains `return
errors.Wrap(err, 1)`.

Recovering from panics
----------------------

This section assumes you know about [defer, panic and
recover](http://blog.golang.org/defer-panic-and-recover).

When Go is recovering from a panic, it calls your deferred functions with the stacktrace still intact. This means that it's possible to get the stacktrace exactly as it was when the panic() started.

To do this you can use `errors.Wrap` inside your deferred handler as follows:

```go
defer func() {
    if err := recover(); err != nil {
        fmt.Println(errors.Wrap(err, 2).ErrorStack())
    }
}()
```

Programming with errors
-----------------------

Using the errors package does have one small downside: you can't compare
errors using equality anymore.

For example, a common pattern in Go is to return `io.EOF` when the end of a
file is reached. As errors now have stacktraces, using equality won't work. An
`io.EOF` error returned from one part of your code won't be the same as an
`io.EOF` returned from another. You can work around this using `errors.Is`.


```go
_, err := reader.Read(buff)
if errors.Is(err, io.EOF) {
    return nil
}
```

If you want your package to expose errors for common conditions, you
can do that using the following pattern. First create an error template
at the top of your file, then call `errors.New()` when returning it
to attach the current stacktrace:

```go
package crashy

import "github.com/go-errors/errors"

var ExpectedCrash = errors.Errorf("expected crash")

func Crash() error {
    return errors.New(ExpectedCrash)
}

```

Your callers can then use `errors.Is` to detect the expected condition:

```go
package main
import (
    "crashy"
    "github.com/go-errors/errors"
)

func main() {
    err := crashy.Crash()
    if errors.Is(err, crashy.ExpectedError) {
        return
    }
}
```

Summary
-------

I hope you agree that having stacktraces makes it much easier to track down
unexpected errors, and that having errors as values makes it easy to handle
expected edge cases.

[go-errors/errors](https://github.com/go-errors/errors) was designed to give
you the best of both worlds. Please let me know on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/ConradIrwin) how it works for you.
